---
layout: default
title: Academic
nav_order: 4
has_children: true
permalink: /docs/academic
---

# Academic

{: .no_toc } 
![Lederle Research Tower](/assets/lgrt.jpg) 


As an undergraduate at University of Massachusetts, Amherst , I joined
Professor Andrea Pocar's lab to contribute research to project EXO ([SLAC EXO
page](https://www-project.slac.stanford.edu/exo/)). The Enriched Xenon
Observatory (EXO) is an experiment aiming to detect neutrinoless double-beta
decay, which would indicate the neutrino is its own anti-particle (an observed
Majorana fermion). The set-up consists of a time projection chamber full of
Xenon 136 that would sit deep in a mine shaft (WIP in New Mexico). To
understand the behavior of the avalanche photodiodes (APDs) at the ends of the
full-scale detector, we erected an electrically insulated ultra-high vacuum
chamber with liquid nitrogen cooling. The APD could be mounted in the chamber
and cooled, while a test source of Fe^{55} could be detected. By analyzing the
singal from the APD, we calculated gain as a function of voltage bias (~1kV)
and temperature. You can look at slides of [the apparatus
here](/assets/apdslides.pdf).  Under the supervision of then post-doc, Dr.
Timothy Vaughn Daniels, my colleague and I learned the many facets of working
on a tabletop experiment with a small team. 

Directly from UMass, I continued onto a PhD program at University of
California, Santa Cruz. As a result of my small lab experience mentioned above,
I looked for another research opportunity and found my spot in [Bud Bridges lab](http://exafs.ucsc.edu/). 

Over the past 30 years, Bud Bridges specialized in studying local crystal
structure by analyzing the extended x-ray absorption fine-struture region in
the spectra. While I was in school with Bud as my advisor, I studied various
complex materials --mostly inorganic. The following overview is my PhD defense
abstarct:

To understand and predict phenomena in solid materials, we often look at how
the lattice structure brings about such an effect. In considering the general
dependence of phase transitions on broken symmetry, it seems appropriate to
closely study the physical configuration of atoms in a lattice. I will talk
about the interesting local structure of the following compounds: Ytterbium
doped calcium fluorite (CaF2:Yb), Lithium niobate doped with zinc, erbium,
indium, and hafnium (LiNbO3:[Zn,Er,In,Hf]), and Organic lead-halide perovksites
MAPbI3 and MAPbBr3. 

Calcium fluorite doped with ytterbium is a doped simple FCC crystal with a
down-shifted anomalous luminescence. A long lived excited state decays with a
yellow-green emission and can be induced with UV exposure. With  two consistent
methods quantifying amount of Yb in the 2+ and 3+ state, we present compelling
evidence that the impurity trapped exciton model does not explain this system.
Further, with the application of a newly developed intervalence charge transfer
model for this system, we can elucidate the various metastable states of this
system and their relation to observations. 
        

Lithium niobate has piqued interest in different eras as a non-linear optical
material. In the 60's and 70s, the remarkable photo-refractive behavior was
explored as a way of writing holographic memory. There lacks a general model
for how the photorefraction is affected by different species of dopants, but
there are proposed charge compensating substitution schema. We aim to judge
models of substitution schema based on our EXAFS results of lithium niobate
doped with zinc, indium, erbium, and hafnium. 


Finally,  organic perovskites have been a material of high interest for
harvesting light. Organic lead halide perovskites have a small and tunable band
gap and long charge carrier diffusion lengths. There are still considerable
obstacles before commercial devices can be fabricated; we present on the
pathways to degradation and how to maximize lead-iodide coordination in the
most studied candidate, MAPbI3. There are further questions about organic lead
halide perovskites, like the mechanism for their limited radiative
recombination rate, that have provoked us to look into the disorder and
vibrational properties of MAPbBr3 in different structural phases.

## Publications
The following are links to publications during my dissertation research at University of California, Santa Cruz:



[Substitution of Er, In, and Hf in LiNbO<sub>3</sub> : Evidence for multiple defect
distributions about dopant sites (2018)](/assets/qsit05_v1_2page.pdf)

[Effect of temperature on light induced degradation in methylammonium
lead iodide perovskite thin films and solar cells (2018)](/assets/1-s2.0-S0927024817305482-main.pdf)

[CaF<sub>2</sub>:Yb is not described by the impurity trapped exciton model (2017)](/assets/acs.jpclett.7b01103.pdf)

[Stable and reversible x-ray induced valence inversion in CaF<sub>2</sub>:Yb(2017)](/assets/acs.jpcc.7b09161.pdf)


[Evolution of Iodoplumbate Complexes in Methylammonium Lead
Iodide Perovskite Precursor Solutions (2017)](/assets/acs.chemmater.6b04917.pdf)



[No difference in local structure aboat a Zn dopant for congruent and stoichiometric LiNbO<sub>3</sub>  (2016)](assets/PhysRevB.94.014101.pdf)

[PhD thesis (2019)](/assets/thesis_public.pdf)
